<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>LXXVIII: Mrs. Bell</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-78" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bell</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>One day, taking a pensive afternoon stroll along one of the many bridle-paths which wind among the shady groves in the neighbourhood of Taloo, I was startled by a sunny apparition. It was that of a beautiful young Englishwoman, charmingly dressed, and mounted upon a spirited little white pony. Switching a green branch, she came cantering toward me.</p>
			<p>I looked round to see whether I could possibly be in Polynesia. There were the palm-trees; but how to account for the lady?</p>
			<p>Stepping to one side as the apparition drew near, I made a polite obeisance. It gave me a bold, rosy look; and then, with a gay air, patted its palfrey, crying out, “Fly away, Willie!” and galloped among the trees.</p>
			<p>I would have followed; but Willie’s heels were making such a pattering among the dry leaves that pursuit would have been useless.</p>
			<p>So I went straight home to Po-Po’s, and related my adventure to the doctor.</p>
			<p>The next day, our inquiries resulted in finding out that the stranger had been on the island about two years; that she came from Sydney; and was the wife of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bell (happy dog!), the proprietor of the sugar plantation to which I have previously referred.</p>
			<p>To the sugar plantation we went, the same day.</p>
			<p>The country round about was very beautiful: a level basin of verdure, surrounded by sloping hillsides. The sugarcane⁠—of which there was about one hundred acres, in various stages of cultivation⁠—looked thrifty. A considerable tract of land, however, which seemed to have been formerly tilled, was now abandoned.</p>
			<p>The place where they extracted the saccharine matter was under an immense shed of bamboos. Here we saw several clumsy pieces of machinery for breaking the cane; also great kettles for boiling the sugar. But, at present, nothing was going on. Two or three natives were lounging in one of the kettles, smoking; the other was occupied by three sailors from the Leviathan, playing cards.</p>
			<p>While we were conversing with these worthies, a stranger approached. He was a sunburnt, romantic-looking European, dressed in a loose suit of nankeen; his fine throat and chest were exposed, and he sported a Guayaquil hat with a brim like a Chinese umbrella. This was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bell. He was very civil; showed us the grounds, and, taking us into a sort of arbour, to our surprise, offered to treat us to some wine. People often do the like; but <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bell did more: he produced the bottle. It was spicy sherry; and we drank out of the halves of fresh citron melons. Delectable goblets!</p>
			<p>The wine was a purchase from, the French in Tahiti.</p>
			<p>Now all this was extremely polite in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bell; still, we came to see <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bell. But she proved to be a phantom, indeed; having left the same morning for Papeetee, on a visit to one of the missionaries’ wives there.</p>
			<p>I went home, much chagrined.</p>
			<p>To be frank, my curiosity had been wonderfully piqued concerning the lady. In the first place, she was the most beautiful white woman I ever saw in Polynesia. But this is saying nothing. She had such eyes, such moss-roses in her cheeks, such a divine air in the saddle, that, to my dying day, I shall never forget <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Bell.</p>
			<p>The sugar-planter himself was young, robust, and handsome. So, merrily may the little Bells increase, and multiply, and make music in the Land of Imeeo.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
