<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This spirituous liquor derives its name from a considerable town in Peru, where it is manufactured in large quantities. It is well known along the whole western coast of South America, whence some of it has been exported to Australia. It is very cheap. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The coloring matter is inserted by means of a shark’s tooth attached to the end of a short stick, which is struck upon the other end with a small mallet of wood. <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>He was so called from the place of his birth, being a runaway Maryland slave. <a href="chapter-11.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The men were shipped “by the lay;” in other words, they received no wages; but, by the articles, were entitled to a certain portion of the profits of the voyage. <a href="chapter-13.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The above is the popular idea on the subject. But of late, a theory directly the reverse has been started. Instead of regarding the phenomena last described as indicating any thing like an active, creative power now in operation, it is maintained, that, together with the entire group, they are merely the remains of a continent, long ago worn away, and broken up by the action of the sea. <a href="chapter-25.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>So called from the place he hailed from; a well known sea-port on the coast of Massachusetts. <a href="chapter-21.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This is a term much in vogue among sailors in the Pacific. It is applied to certain roving characters, who, without attaching themselves permanently to any vessel, ship now and then for a short cruise in a whaler; but upon the condition only of being honorably discharged the very next time the anchor takes hold of the bottom; no matter where. They are, mostly, a reckless, rollicking set, wedded to the Pacific, and never dreaming of ever doubling Cape Horn again on a homeward-bound passage. Hence, their reputation is a bad one. <a href="chapter-21.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Some of the most “promising” convicts in New South Wales are hired out to the citizens as servants; thus being, in some degree, permitted to go at large, government, however, still claiming them as wards. They are provided with tickets, whioh they are obliged to show to any one who pleases to suspect their being abroad without warrant. Hence the above appellation. This was the doctor’s explanation of the term. <a href="chapter-23.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The most northerly point of the island; and so called from Cook’s observatory being placed there during his first visit. <a href="chapter-26.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A corruption of the French word <i>savoir</i>, much in use among sailors of all nations, and hence made familiar to many of the natives of Polynesia. <a href="chapter-26.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For a few years past, more than one hundred and fifty sail have annually touched at Tahiti. They are principally whalemen, whose cruising-grounds lie in the vicinity. The harbor dues⁠—going to the queen⁠—are so high, that they have often been protested against. Jim, I believe, gets five silver dollars for every ship brought in. <a href="chapter-26.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Newtonian theory concerning the tides does not hold good at Tahiti; where, throughout the year, the waters uniformly commence ebbing at noon and midnight, and flow about sunset and daybreak. Hence the term Tooerar-Po is used alike to express high-water and midnight. <a href="chapter-27.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>I do not wish to be understood as applauding the flogging system practiced in men-of-war. As long, however, as navies are needed, there is no substitute for it. War being the greatest of evils, all its accessories necessarily partake of the same character; and this is about all that can be said in defense of flogging. <a href="chapter-29.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Concerning the singular ignorance of the natives respecting their own country, it may be here observed, that a considerable inland lake⁠—Whaiherea by name⁠—is known to exist, although their accounts of it strangely vary. Some told me it had no bottom, no outlet, and no inlet; others, that it fed all the streams on the island. A sailor of my acquaintance said, that he once visited this marvelous lake, as one of an exploring party from an English sloop-of-war. It was found to be a great curiosity: very small, deep, and green; a choice well of water bottled up among the mountains, and abounding with delicious fish. <a href="chapter-30.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Meaning the showy image of the Virgin in the little Catholic chapel. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The word “arva,” as here employed, means brandy. Poofai was one of the highest chiefs on the island, and a jolly companion. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This word, evidently a corruption of “missionary,” is used under various significations by the natives. Sometimes, it is applied to a communicant of the Church. But, above, it has its original meaning. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A word generally used by foreigners to designate the natives of Polynesia. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Pomaree, some time previous, had received a present of a chariot from Queen Victoria. It was afterward sent to Oahu (Sandwich Islands), and there sold to pay her debts. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>At this period, many of the population were upon the verge of starvation. <a href="chapter-45.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Pope. (Epistle to a lady.) <a href="chapter-46.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>With abhorrence and disgust the custom is alluded to by a late benevolent visitor at the island. See page 763 of the “Memoirs of the Life and Gospel Labors of the late Daniel Wheeler.” A work hereafter to be more particularly alluded to. <a href="chapter-46.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Polynesia: or an Historical Account of the Principal Islands of the South Sea: By the Right Rev. M. Russell, LL.D. (Harpers’ Family Library Edition), p. 96. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A New Voyage round the World in the years 1823⁠–⁠24⁠–⁠25⁠–⁠26: By Otto Von Kotzebue, Post Captain in the Russian Imperial Service (Lon don, 1830; 2 vols. 8vo.), vol. i., p. 168. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The author of a Voyage round the World, in the years 1800⁠–⁠1804 (3 vols 8vo., London, 1805). <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Narrative of a Voyage to the Pacific and Bherring’s Straits, under the command of Captain F. W. Beechy, R.N. (London, 1831), vol. i., p. 287. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-26" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Memoirs of the Life and Gospel Labors of the late Daniel Wheeler, a minister of the Society of Friends (London, 1842, 8vo.), p. 757. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-27" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-28" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A Missionary Voyage to the South Pacific Ocean, Appendix, pp. 336, 342. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-28" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-29" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>See Vancouver’s Voyages, 4to. edition, vol. i., p. 172. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-29" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-30" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Beechy’s Narrative, p. 269. <a href="chapter-48.xhtml#noteref-30" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-31" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“I was convinced,” he adds, “that from the vast swarms that everywhere appeared, this estimate was not at all too great.” <a href="chapter-49.xhtml#noteref-31" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-32" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For an allusion to this census, see one of the chapters on Tahiti, in the volumes of the U. S. Exploring Expedition. And, for the almost incredible depopulation of the Sandwich Islands, in recent years, see the same work. The progressive decrease, in certain districts, for a consider able period, is there marked.</p>
					<p>Ruschenberger, an intelligent surgeon in the United States Navy, takes the following instance from the records kept on the islands. The district of Rohalo, in Hawaii, at one time numbered 8679 souls: four years after, the population was 6175: decrease, in that time, 2504. No extraordinary cause is assigned for this depopulation. Vide A Voyage round the World, in the years 1835⁠–⁠36⁠–⁠37. By W. S. Ruschenberger, M.D. (Philadelphia, 1838, 8vo.) The chapter on the Sandwich Islands. <a href="chapter-49.xhtml#noteref-32" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-33" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Perhaps the finest sweet potato in the world. It derives its name from a district of Peru, near Cape Blanco, very favorable to its growth; where, also, it is extensively cultivated: the root is very large; sometimes as big as a good-sized melon. <a href="chapter-52.xhtml#noteref-33" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-34" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Perhaps the most remarkable volcanoes in the world. For very interesting accounts of three adventurous expeditions to their summits (seventeen thousand feet above the level of the sea), see Lord Byron’s Voyage of H.B.M. Ship Blonde; Ellis’s Journal of a Visit to the Sandwich Islands; and Wilke’s Narrative of the U.S. Exploring Expedition. <a href="chapter-54.xhtml#noteref-34" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-35" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This anomaly exists, notwithstanding that, in other respects, the missionaries have endeavored to organize the native courts upon the English model. <a href="chapter-79.xhtml#noteref-35" epub:type="backlink">↩︎</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
